OpenTelemetry exporters documentation improvements (#48580)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/opentelemetry.adoc

Creating a custom `SpanExporter` bean:

[source,java]
----
    @ApplicationScoped
    static class InMemorySpanExporterProducer {
        @Produces
        @Singleton
        InMemorySpanExporter inMemorySpanExporter() {
            return InMemorySpanExporter.create();
        }
    }
----

Where `InMemorySpanExporter` is a class from the OpenTelemetry test utilities dependency:

[source,xml,role="primary asciidoc-tabs-target-sync-cli asciidoc-tabs-target-sync-maven"]
.pom.xml
----
    <dependency>
        <groupId>io.opentelemetry</groupId>
        <artifactId>opentelemetry-sdk-testing</artifactId>
        <scope>test</scope>
    </dependency>
----

[source,gradle,role="secondary asciidoc-tabs-target-sync-gradle"]
.build.gradle
----
implementation("io.opentelemetry:opentelemetry-sdk-testing")
----

The bean of that class can be injected to access the telemetry data. This is an example to obtain the spans:

[source, java]
----
    @Inject
    InMemorySpanExporter inMemorySpanExporter;

    //...

    List<SpanData> finishedSpanItems = inMemorySpanExporter.getFinishedSpanItems();
----

> If this is used on an integration test project, you should access the class from inside the running process and not from the test class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this is used in an integration test, you should access the class from inside the running process and not from the test class.
```

> A viable option could be to expose that data through a rest endpoint method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A viable option could be to expose that data through a REST endpoint method:
```

[source,java]
----
    @GET
    @Path("/export")
    public List<SpanData> exportTraces() {
        return inMemorySpanExporter.getFinishedSpanItems()
                .stream()
                .filter(sd -> !sd.getName().contains("export")) <1>
                .collect(Collectors.toList());
    }
----
<1> This excludes calls to the export endpoint itself.

> For more details please take a look to the https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/blob/main/integration-tests/opentelemetry/src/main/java/io/quarkus/it/opentelemetry/ExporterResource.java[ExporterResource] in the Quarkus integration tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details please take a look at the https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/blob/main/integration-tests/opentelemetry/src/main/java/io/quarkus/it/opentelemetry/ExporterResource.java[ExporterResource] in the Quarkus integration tests.
```

=== The OpenTelemetry OTLP exporter

> This is currently not supported in quarkus. Configuration example for traces: `quarkus.otel.tracing.exporter=otlp`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is currently not supported in Quarkus. Configuration example for traces: `quarkus.otel.tracing.exporter=otlp`.
```

I don't understand:

> Configuration example for traces

?

And I think I agree with @geoand that throwing a proper error in Quarkus for unsupported values would be better? Either with a fixed list of values if we know all of them or excluding the usual suspects people could be tempted to use?
